Oct. 4, 2023
Minouche Shafik is inaugurated on Low Steps as Columbia’s 19th president. 
Pippa Tsuki Carlson / Columbia Daily Spectator
Oct. 7, 2023
Hamas attacks Israel. 
Jewish Caucus of Columbia Democrats
Oct. 12, 2023
Dueling pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian protests take place on Butler lawns, the first of many campus demonstrations over the war in Gaza that Columbia would see throughout the academic year.
Pippa Tsuki Carlson / Columbia Daily Spectator
Feb. 12, 2024
Following months of protests, the House Committee on Education launches its investigation into antisemitism at Columbia due to “its failure to protect Jewish students.” It requested “all reports of antisemitic acts or incidents and related documents and communications since January 1, 2021.”
Gabriella Gregor Splaver / Columbia Daily Spectator
April 17, 2024
Around 4am, hundreds of pro-Palestinian protesters pitched the ‘Gaza Solidarity Encampment,’ on East Butler Lawn hours before Shafik’s testimony on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers criticized her handling of antisemitic incidents on campus.
Asha Ahn / Columbia Daily Spectator
April 18, 2024
Shafik authorized the New York Police Department to sweep the ‘Gaza Solidarity Encampment,’ arresting over 100 individuals. Students would later repitch the encampment on West Butler Lawn. In a statement, then-committee chair Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.) said she was “glad” Shafik called the NYPD to “clear this radical, unauthorized encampment.”
Sydney Lee / Columbia Daily Spectator
April 24, 2024
Two days after Democratic lawmakers visited the Kraft Center for Jewish Student Life, House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) became the highest ranking federal official to visit Columbia during the encampment. Holding a press conference alongside Foxx and two other Republicans, Johnson called for Shafik’s resignation.
Gabriella Gregor Splaver / Columbia Daily Spectator
April 30, 2024
Just after midnight, after negotiations reached an impasse, dozens of pro-Palestinian protesters occupied Hamilton Hall. The NYPD would sweep the building at around 9:30 p.m., arresting over 100 protesters.
Heather Chen / Columbia Daily Spectator
Aug. 13, 2024 
Shafik resigned from the presidency, becoming Columbia’s shortest tenured president since 1801. Katrina Armstrong, then-CEO of the Irving Medical Center was tapped to serve as Columbia’s interim president.
Columbia University
Oct. 31, 2024
The committee published a 325-page report on how 11 universities–including Columbia and Barnard–handled antisemitism. Releasing internal administrative communications and records, it found that Columbia  “offered greater concessions to encampment organizers than they publicly acknowledged” and that University administrators “expressed contempt” for congressional oversight.
"Antisemitism on College Campuses Exposed" report
Nov. 5, 2024
Donald Trump wins the 2024 election, beating Vice President Kamala Harris and completing an unprecedented political comeback.
Isha Banerjee / Columbia Daily Spectator
Jan. 20, 2025
Trump is sworn in as the 47th president of the United States. Hours after his ceremony, he signs an executive order curtailing diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives–the first of many executive orders aimed at scrutinizing higher education.
Executive Order 14151: "Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing"
Mar. 7, 2025
The Trump administration slashed $400 million in federal funding to Columbia due the University’s “continued inaction in the face of persistent harassment of Jewish students.” As part of the funding cut, $250 million in funding from the National Institutes of Health was canceled.
Pippa Tsuki Carlson / Columbia Daily Spectator
Mar. 8, 2025
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents detained Mahmoud Khalil, SIPA ’24, at his University-owned building. Court documents would later reveal that Secretary of State Marco Rubio would use a rarely cited provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act to justify Khalil’s detainment.
Stella Ragas / Columbia Daily Spectator
Mar. 13, 2025
The federal government sent a list of 13 demands to Armstrong to begin negotiations to restore the cancelled funding. The demands included placing the Middle East, South Asian, and African studies department under academic receivership, the implementation of a mask ban, and the granting Public Safety officers “full law enforcement authority, including arrest and removal of agitators.”
Letter to Columbia University
Mar. 21, 2025
Columbia announced it would partially complied with the demands laid out by the federal government in its March 13 letter, banning some masks on campus, hiring 36 “special officers who will have the ability to remove individuals from campus and/or arrest them,” and placing the Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African studies department and the Center for Palestine Studies under the purview of a senior vice provost.
Zohar Ford / Columbia Daily Spectator
Mar. 28, 2025
Amid wide criticism of Columbia’s partial compliance with the federal government’s list of demands, Katrina Armstrong resigned from office. Claire Shipman assumed the role of acting University president. 
Gabriella Gregor Splaver / Columbia Daily Spectator
April 14, 2025
ICE agents detained Mohsen Mahdawi, GS ’25, SIPA ’27, at his naturalization interview in Vermont. He was released on April 30, 2025.
Gabriella Gregor Splaver / Columbia Daily Spectator
May 22, 2025
The Department of Health and Human Services’ Office for Civil Rights found Columbia to be in violation of Title VI due to the University “acting with deliberate indifference” toward addressing on-campus antisemitism since Oct. 7, 2023. 
Erick Berlanga Vazquez / Columbia Daily Spectator
June 4, 2025
The Department of Education announced that Columbia failed to meet accreditation standards because the University “is in violation of federal antidiscrimination laws.” Columbia’s accreditor, the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, would reaffirm the University’s accreditation in March 2026.
Audrea Chen / Columbia Daily Spectator
July 23, 2025
Following months of negotiations, Columbia signed its $221 million deal with the federal government. As part of the deal, Columbia saw the reimbursement of “a vast majority” of its canceled federal funding. 
Thomas Diaz / Columbia Daily Spectator
Feb. 26, 2026
ICE agents detained Elmina Aghayeva, GS ’26, at her University-owned residence. After lobbying by Mayor Zohran Mamdani, including an in-person conversation with President Donald Trump at the White House, she was released that evening.
Elmina Aghayeva
April 1, 2026
Columbia released its first semi-annual report detailing its progress on complying with the deal’s provisions. The report found that Columbia had complied with nearly all of the deal’s provisions and announced that the University would require “student attestations” to abide by commitments to civil inquiry and that administrators would be appointed to oversee academic programming and the “wellbeing of Jewish students.” It was the first benchmark of several to come in the University’s remaining two years of compliance with the deal.
"Semi-Annual Report Columbia University Resolution Agreement (April 2026)"
