1: "Everything Everywhere All at Once"
Directors Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert • 2022
“In another life, I would’ve really liked just doing laundry and taxes with you,” Waymond Wang (Ke Huy Quan) tells his wife, Evelyn Wang (Michelle Yeoh), in an alternate timeline after an IRS audit triggers a cross-multiverse adventure. “Everything Everywhere All at Once” superimposes the everyday struggles of the Wang family onto the grand, expansive backdrop of the multiverse. Beyond its showstopper action set pieces, sentient rocks, and hot dog fingers is a story that reckons with the ever-intensifying force of modernity, generational trauma, and the everything bagel of despair that comes for all of us.
Points: 13

2: "Y tu mamá también"
Director Alfonso Cuarón • 2001
The ultimate road trip movie. “Y tu mamá también” follows main characters Tenoch Iturbide (Diego Luna) and Julio Zapata (Gael García Bernal) as they traverse the striking landscapes of southeastern Mexico on their quest for paradise. The film sees the pair, accompanied by Luisa Cortés (Maribel Verdú), who faces her own personal crises, undergo a journey of sexual exploration, individuation, and self-possession. Alfonso Cuarón toes the line between effortlessly entertaining and deeply truthful drama, crafting a story that demands to be rewatched again and again.
Points: 12

3: "Interstellar"
Director Christopher Nolan • 2014
In a near-distant future, with Earth on the brink of uninhabitability, humans have no choice but to look beyond. Who better to lead the journey than astronaut extraordinaire Cooper (Mathew McConaughey)? As the crew faces one cosmological danger after another—from mountainous waves to time-travel-enabling black holes—the wonders of space are realized to their fullest extent. With Hans Zimmer’s now culturally cemented score behind it, “Interstellar” is the preeminent sci-fi film of the 21st century.
Points: 9

4: "Whiplash" (Tied)
Director Damien Chazelle • 2014
What does it take to be great? Andrew (Miles Teller), an aspiring jazz drummer, spends the duration of “Whiplash” reckoning with this question. Anchored by a brilliantly wrathful performance from JK Simmons as Fletcher, the abusive mentor who pushes Andrew to the farthest reaches of his limits, the story delicately builds tension towards inevitable cacophony. When this does occur, it happens with a narrative precision as fine and as rhythmic as that of the film’s musical composites.
Points: 8

4: "La La Land" (Tied)
Director Damien Chazelle • 2016
Damien Chazelle dreams up a Los Angeles pervaded with a sort of magic. With Mia (Emma Stone), an aspiring actor, and Sebastian (Ryan Gosling), a jazz pianist, at the helm, the two complicate the classic rom-com model when their dreams are in question. With elaborate musical arrangements, traffic jam dance numbers, and an entrancingly bright color scheme, it’s hard not to find yourself caught by the magic of “La La Land.”
Points: 8

5: "Princess Mononoke" (Tied)
Director Hayao Miyazaki • 1997
One in a long line of culturally significant creations from the mind of Hayao Miyazaki, “Princess Mononoke” weaves a pointed commentary on overindustrialization within a deeply charming imagined world of soft pastels and lush landscapes. The film, adapted from “Shuna’s Journey,” a graphic novel written and illustrated by Miyazaki in 1983, follows Ashitaka (Yōji Matsuda) on his quest westward for a cure after being cursed by Nago, a giant boar god.
Points: 7

5: "How to Train Your Dragon" (Tied)
Directors Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders • 2010
Dragon is man’s best friend in the DreamWorks animated classic “How to Train Your Dragon.” Despite a century-long conflict between dragons and humans, Norse teenager Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) develops an immediate and unlikely connection with Toothless, a rare Night Fury dragon. The on-screen pairing blossoms into one of animated cinema’s most iconic friendships, with a chemistry grounded in radical kindness and a mutual curiosity. 
Points: 7