In the wake of a Nov. 7, 2024, shooting that injured a seven-year-old girl in Hamilton Heights, local officials said they would hold a town hall with residents to discuss public safety amid heightened community fears and media coverage.

More than a year later, the first town hall has been delayed twice as District 7 City Councilmember Shaun Abreu, CC ’14, and Precinct 30 Captain Cary Rose stalled on following up. To this day, the community meeting has yet to materialize due to scheduling conflicts between organizers and local officials.

Ryan Bauer-Walsh, a West Harlem resident and community organizer, characterized it as a missed opportunity for community engagement in Upper Manhattan—an area that residents have said is overlooked by public officials, especially when compared to Midtown and Lower Manhattan.

“I can’t imagine why in an election year it wasn’t looked on as an incredibly valuable opportunity to engage with constituents,” Bauer-Walsh wrote in a statement to Spectator.

Bauer-Walsh runs the Hamilton Heights-West Harlem Neighborhood Forum, which is a landing page for building online neighborhood connections.

This online presence positioned him to disseminate information about the November 2024 shooting almost immediately after it happened, moderating comments and confusion as information gradually became available.

According to Bauer-Walsh, he met Abreu and Rose at The Chipped Cup, a Hamilton Heights coffee shop, just a few days after the shooting. Bauer-Walsh wrote in a statement to Spectator that they planned to have a town hall, which he hoped to host by January at the latest.

But January passed, and the town hall had not taken place.

“I finally got a date for one that was to be April 7th,” Bauer-Walsh wrote to Spectator.

But the planned April 7 town hall was “cancelled for some reason,” he wrote.

“Then there was supposed to be another date-and then, despite my pleas, the communication stopped, time had passed,” he continued. “The idea lost its momentum despite my emails and calls for community action.”

Bauer-Walsh said he worried the cancellation made him look “like a liar at worst- and untrustworthy and incompetent at best.”

According to Bauer-Walsh, the first town hall was supposed to be a “grassroots initiative” for local leaders to collaborate on how to “spread accurate information” related to the shooting.

The second town hall would have been a public forum, open for residents to ask questions and get answers from public officials about public safety and other neighborhood issues.

Abreu did not respond to a request for comment. The NYPD’s media branch, the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Public Information, also did not respond to a request for comment.

Bauer-Walsh clarified that he wasn’t criticizing Abreu or Rose. “I just think it’s a shame that the opportunity seems lost to communicate in real time-closer to the date of the subject matter,” he said.

Hamilton Heights resident Laura Davis agreed. Though she said she thought the town hall was a good idea when she first heard of it, she said she felt somewhat cynical too. “I’m not surprised to hear it didn’t happen,” she said.

She said that a town hall would have been crucial in the direct aftermath of the shooting.

“I think that would have been really, really helpful, honestly, because there’'s so many families uptown,” Davis said. “This is a family neighborhood. There’s so many families in this neighborhood. There’s so many schools, there’'s so many kids and grandparents and aunts and uncles and parents like myself.”

Barry Weinberg, former vice chair of Community Board 9, which includes Hamilton Heights, said the town hall not being held was “unfortunate.”

“It kind of shows that [Abreu] not invested in this area of his district, which I think has been a common complaint: He gives a lot of attention to the Upper West Side and a lot of attention to the small portion of the Heights in his district, but really has an unhelpful relationship or lack of a relationship with Hamilton Heights and Manhattanville,” Weinberg said.

Both Davis and Bauer-Walsh expressed dismay at Abreu’s decision not to follow up on the town hall. Though up for reelection for his City Council seat in November, Abreu won soundly against Independent candidate Edafe Okporo.

“I know that he’s done a lot [for the] ... community, but there’s things that he’s done that I get pretty upset with,” Davis said. She pointed to Abreu not directly condemning the detention of Palestinian activist Mahmoud Khalil, SIPA ’24, by Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the days directly after his arrest.

The board’s relationship with Abreu has strained this year due to concerns over his involvement with CB9 appointments and removals.

Victor Edwards, the chair of CB9, said he has had a good relationship with Rose, who took on the position of precinct captain last year. Edwards said Rose or another precinct officer usually sits in on CB9 meetings.

“Captain Rose is probably one of the best commanders that I’ve worked with since I’ve been on the board,” Edwards said. “He is very accessible to me personally.”

Edwards said the town hall likely did not impact a majority of West Harlem residents since many did not know it was happening to begin with. But, he added, a town hall may be helpful in the wake of traumatic, confusing events such as the shooting.

“I think it helps reassure residents that someone is looking out for their interests, and they can express what their fears are, and even bring to the attention of local officials or the precinct where they see things that could be improved or need more patrolling and things of this nature,” Edwards said. “I think it lets people know that they care.”